<span align="center">
  <h1>Discourse through Discord</h1>
  <h2>Can a specialized tool fit general needs?</h2>
  <h3>by Kira Casto</h3>
</span>
<br>
<p>In the past few months, the world has found itself with a sudden need for digital communication solutions. With daily life all but halted by a global pandemic, there is now a clear demand for high quality digital tools. For the purposes of this analysis, a high quality tool is one which allows consistent connections, voice/video/text communication without instruction, and no readily exploitable security vulnerabilities. The consistent connection would help determine how readily <strong>UX Efficiency</strong> goals are met, as an inefficient system will experience significant slowdown. A tool with a variety of reliable communication methods will influence <strong>UX Learnability, Memorability, and Effectiveness</strong> performance, as these methods can make the difference when seeking to communicate with an entire group. Of course all of these features can be compromised if the tool does not have sufficient <strong>Error Tolerance</strong>, so the tool must have no readily exploitable security vulnerabilities and must employ safegaurds to reduce risk exposure to user error. With the rules in place, the focus now shifts to the chat tool Discord.</p>
<br>
</p>Discord is a chat tool that markets itself as a chat utility for gamers. As a result, the entire interface is designed around use while playing video games. However, it can be used for anything the user desires. The core of the Discord tool is the idea of chat rooms, which isn't exactly revolutionary, but this simple foundation allows for most any room structure found in a standard office. In place of doors and keypads are permissions, conference rooms are replaced by channels and servers, phone calls are simply done through voice chat, and going out for lunch is easier than ever before. 

Each Discord server allows the creator to adjust permissions as desired, meaning a channel can be created that only allows text and nobody can even read it if they don't have permission. Should they try to view these channels, Discord can tell them that they don't have permission instantly and without supervisor intervention via a popup. Similar to how an IT department would arrange permissions for an internal network, a server allows adjusting permission settings per user, channel, or role to improve <b>Error Tolerance</b>. When it comes to <b>Learnability</b>, Discord makes it easy. As for <b>Memorability</b>, all the settings for a server are usable by someone with average technical experience and build on common concepts used for any internal network. These qualities make the tool incredibly <b>Effective</b> for maintaining daily operations with little or no training. Additionally the network management responsibilities are delegated to Discord and the enterprise-grade server technology they employ. As a result of focusing so heavily on network infrastructure, a reliable connection is more often a testament to the nearby wifi signal. With one exception, of course. Unfortunately nobody can do it all, and so even Discord servers slow or halt from high traffic from time to time. However, at this time, Discord servers are well prepared to deliver reliable connections to a multitude of client simultaneously and <b>Efficiently</b></p> 

<p>At the end of the day, Discord proves itself to be a versatile chat tool that can meet existing needs effectively. The methods used in a server are often analagous to an office, allowing users to gain rapid familiarity with the tool and often remember it well enough to maintain a steady workflow. Should users have the occaisonal slip-up, the variety of permission settings can provide the error tolerance necessary to incentivize exploration of the tool. In almost any situation, if the user has internet then they will have at least one effective method of communication at their disposal. Oh! Now going out for lunch takes no more than a cell phone and a quick trip to the kitchen</p>
